EDU-671: Brings Python Workflow Message Handling into docs compliance (#3018)
temporalio/documentation: docs/develop/python/message-passing.mdx

  - dynamic-handlers
---

A Workflow can act like a stateful web service that receives messages: Queries, Signals, and Updates.
The Workflow implementation defines these endpoints via handler methods that can react to incoming messages and return values.
Temporal Clients use messages to read Workflow state and control its execution.
See [Workflow message passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing) for a general overview of this topic.
This page introduces these features for the Temporal Python SDK.

## Write message handlers {#writing-message-handlers}

:::info
The code that follows is part of a working message passing [sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/message-passing/message_passing/introduction).
:::

> Follow these guidelines when writing your message handlers:

Reviewer: The following bullet arose out of a thread with @axfelix who asked to make it clearer where handlers are defined. The bullet got lost in branch mechanics but do you like it?

```suggestion
Follow these guidelines when writing your message handlers:

- Message handlers are defined as methods on the Workflow class, using one of the three decorators: [`@workflow.query`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#query), [`@workflow.signal`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#signal), and [`@workflow.update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#update).
```

- The parameters and return values of handlers and the main Workflow function must be [serializable](/dataconversion).
- [Data class](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html) parameters allow you to add fields without changing the calling signature.

>   Prefer data classes to multiple input parameters.

Author: Swapped.

            raise ValueError(f"{language.name} is not supported")
```

- The Update decorator can take arguments.
  See the API reference docs: [`workflow.update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#update).

- Validators are optional.
  Skip them when you don't need to reject updates.

> - The SDK automatically creates the validator decorator: `@<update-handler-name>.validator`.

Author: Adopted

  The validator must accept the same argument type as the handler and return `None`.

- To reject an Update, raise an exception of any type in the validator.

- Update (and Signal) handlers can be `async def`.
  This enables the use of Activities, Child Workflows, durable [`asyncio.sleep`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.sleep) Timers, [`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition) conditions, and more.
  See [Async handlers](#async-handlers) and [Workflow message passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing) for safe usage guidelines.

## Send messages {#send-messages}

To send Queries, Signals, or Updates, you call methods on a [WorkflowHandle](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html) object.

To fetch the Workflow handle:

- Use [start_workflow](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#start_workflow) to start a Workflow and return its handle.

> - Use [get_workflow_handle_for](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#get_workflow_handle_for) to request a Workflow handle.

Author: Please check update for correctness, adapted from SDK ref:

```
- Use [get_workflow_handle_for](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#get_workflow_handle_for) to retrieve a typed Workflow handle by its Workflow Identifier.
```

> - Use [get_workflow_handle_for](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#get_workflow_handle_for) to request a Workflow handle.

Reviewer: Yes looks good

For example:

```python
client = await Client.connect("localhost:7233")
workflow_handle = await client.start_workflow(
    GreetingWorkflow.run, id="greeting-workflow-1234", task_queue="my-task-queue"
)
```

> To check the expected argument and return types for Queries and Updates, refer to the corresponding handler method in the Workflow Definition.

Author: Adopting

### Send a Query {#send-query}

Use [`WorkflowHandle.query`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#query) to send a Query to a Workflow Execution:

```python
supported_languages = await workflow_handle.query(
    GreetingWorkflow.get_languages, GetLanguagesInput(supported_only=True)
)
```

- Sending a Query doesn’t add events to a Workflow's Event History.

> - You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions.

Author: Adding

> - You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions.

Author: He is awesome. Checking all three parallel.

> - You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions.

Author: ```
- You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions.
  A Worker must be online and polling the Task Queue to process the Query.
```

### Send a Signal {#send-signal}

You can send a Signal to a Workflow Execution from a Temporal Client or from another Workflow Execution.
However, you can only send Signals to Workflow Executions that haven’t closed.

#### Send a Signal from a Client {#send-signal-from-client}

> Use [`WorkflowHandle.signal`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#signal) to change Workflow state and/or control its flow:

Author: adopted

```python
await workflow_handle.signal(GreetingWorkflow.approve, ApproveInput(name="me"))
```

- The call returns when the server accepts the Signal; it does _not_ wait for the Signal to be delivered to the Workflow Execution.

- The [WorkflowExecutionSignaled](/references/events#workflowexecutionsignaled) Event appears in the Workflow's Event History if the server accepts the Signal.

#### Send a Signal from a Workflow {#send-signal-from-workflow}

A Workflow can send a Signal to another Workflow, known as an _External Signal_.

In this case, you need a Workflow handle for the external Workflow.

> Use [`get_external_workflow_handle_for`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#get_external_workflow_handle_for) to return a typed Workflow handle:

Author: Updating

    GreetingWorkflow.run, id="greeting-workflow-1234", task_queue="my-task-queue"
)
```

To check the argument types required when sending messages -- and the return type for Queries and Updates -- refer to the corresponding handler method in the Workflow Definition.

### Send a Query {#send-query}

Use [`WorkflowHandle.query`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#query) to send a Query to a Workflow Execution:

```python
supported_languages = await workflow_handle.query(
    GreetingWorkflow.get_languages, GetLanguagesInput(supported_only=True)
)
```

- Sending a Query doesn’t add events to a Workflow's Event History.

- You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions within a Namespace's Workflow retention period.
  This includes Workflows that have completed, failed, or timed out.
  Querying terminated Workflows is not safe and, therefore, not supported

- A Worker must be online and polling the Task Queue to process a Query.

### Send a Signal {#send-signal}

You can send a Signal to a Workflow Execution from a Temporal Client or from another Workflow Execution.
However, you can only send Signals to Workflow Executions that haven’t closed.

> A Worker must be online and polling the Task Queue to process a Signal.

Author: Removed.

            raise ValueError(f"{language.name} is not supported")
```

- The Update decorator can take arguments (like, `name`, `dynamic` and `unfinished_policy`) as described in the API reference docs for  [`workflow.update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#update).

- About validators:
  - Use validators to reject an Update before it is written to History.
    Validators are always optional.
    If you don't need to reject updates, you can skip them.
  - The SDK automatically provides a validator decorator named `@<update-handler-name>.validator`.
    The validator must accept the same argument types as the handler and return `None`.

>     You can create your own validator with the same constraints by marking a method with the `@update_workflow_status.validator` decorator.
>   - For more flexibility, use code-based checks at the start of the Update handler instead of validators.
>     Raise an `ApplicationError` for any issues that would prevent the Update from running.
>     This approach adds rejected Update requests to your Event History if exceptions occur.

Reviewer: I think there was some confusion in our discussion in another channel; let's delete all this:

```suggestion
```

Author: Removed

- Accepting and rejecting Updates with validators:
  - To reject an Update, raise an exception of any type in the validator.
  - Without a validator, Updates are always accepted.
- Validators and Event History:
  - The `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` event is written into the History whether the acceptance was automatic or programmatic.
  - When a Validator raises an error, the Update is rejected and `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` _won't_ be added to the Event History.
    The caller receives an "Update failed" error.

- Update (and Signal) handlers can be `async def`, letting them use Activities, Child Workflows, durable [`asyncio.sleep`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.sleep) Timers, [`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition) conditions, and more.
  See [Async handlers](#async-handlers) and [Workflow message passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing) for safe usage guidelines.

## Send messages {#send-messages}

To send Queries, Signals, or Updates, you call methods on a [WorkflowHandle](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html) object.

> To fetch the Workflow handle:

Reviewer: Not "fetch" here: `get_workflow_handle_for` is a plain `def` and therefore does not do any network call.

Author: Removed this line, added colon to previous line

- Use [get_workflow_handle_for](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#get_workflow_handle_for) to retrieve a typed Workflow handle by its Workflow Id.

For example:

```python
client = await Client.connect("localhost:7233")
workflow_handle = await client.start_workflow(
    GreetingWorkflow.run, id="greeting-workflow-1234", task_queue="my-task-queue"
)
```

To check the argument types required when sending messages -- and the return type for Queries and Updates -- refer to the corresponding handler method in the Workflow Definition.

### Send a Query {#send-query}

Use [`WorkflowHandle.query`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#query) to send a Query to a Workflow Execution:

```python
supported_languages = await workflow_handle.query(
    GreetingWorkflow.get_languages, GetLanguagesInput(supported_only=True)
)
```

- Sending a Query doesn’t add events to a Workflow's Event History.

- You can send Queries to closed Workflow Executions within a Namespace's Workflow retention period.
  This includes Workflows that have completed, failed, or timed out.

>   Querying terminated Workflows is not safe and, therefore, not supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Querying terminated Workflows is not safe and, therefore, not supported.
```

Author: Adopted

        handle = workflow.get_external_workflow_handle_for(WorkflowA.run, "workflow-a")
        await handle.signal(WorkflowA.your_signal, "signal argument")
```

When an External Signal is sent:
- A [SignalExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiated](/references/events#signalexternalworkflowexecutioninitiated) Event appears in the sender's Event History.
- A [WorkflowExecutionSignaled](/references/events#workflowexecutionsignaled) Event appears in the recipient's Event History.

#### Signal-With-Start {#signal-with-start}

Signal-With-Start allows a Client to simultaneously start and immediately signal a new Workflow Execution, or just signal a Workflow Execution if it already exists.

> To use Signal-With-Start, call the [`start_workflow`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#start_workflow) method and pass the `start_signal` argument with the name of your Signal:

Author: Updated to 
```
Signal-With-Start allows a Client to send a signal to a Workflow Execution, starting the Execution if it is not already running.
```

    )
```

### Send an Update {#send-update-from-client}

> An Update is a synchronous, blocking call that can change the state of a Workflow Execution and return a response.

Author: removing "the"

> An Update is a synchronous, blocking call that can change the state of a Workflow Execution and return a response.

Author: adopted otherwise

> It combines Signal and Query elements with lower overhead and latency.

Author: Removed.

A client sending an Update must wait until the Server delivers the Update to a Worker.
Workers must be available and responsive.
If you need a response as soon as the Server receives the request, use a Signal instead.
Also note that you can't send Updates to other Workflow Executions or perform an Update equivalent of Signal-With-Start.

> - `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update passed validation.

Author: I'm no clear on what validation means here so I assume reader might be confused too.

> - `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update passed validation.

Author: Updated the section. Discussed on thread.

> - `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompleted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update has finished.

Author: Since this is under "notes to selves": please be aware that we don't mention possible future updates in docs. So we avoid "currently" and "in a future release".

> - `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompleted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update has finished.

Author: Also https://t.mp/edu-request for ticketing.

To send an Update to a Workflow Execution, you can:

- Call [`execute_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#execute_update) and wait for a Worker to complete.

>   This returns Update result:

Author: Updated and clarified. Thanks for the catch.

  ```python
  previous_language = await workflow_handle.execute_update(
      GreetingWorkflow.set_language, Language.Chinese
  )
  ```

- Send [`start_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#start_update) to receive an [`UpdateHandle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowUpdateHandle.html) as soon as the update is accepted or rejected.
  Use this for `async def` Update handlers that perform long-running async activities.
  This includes operations such as `await` Activities, Child Workflows, Timers, or `wait_condition`.

>   `start_update` wait only until the Worker has accepted or rejected the Update, not until all activities are complete.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a38705a8-ad92-480e-80bb-a96d31462af4)

Pass method names instead of method objects to:

- [`Client.start_workflow`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#start_workflow)
- [`WorkflowHandle.query`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#query)
- [`WorkflowHandle.signal`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#signal)
- [`WorkflowHandle.execute_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#execute_update)
- [`WorkflowHandle.start_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#start_update)

Use these non-type safe APIs:

- [`get_workflow_handle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#get_workflow_handle)
- [`get_external_workflow_handle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#get_external_workflow_handle).

:::

## Message handler patterns {#message-handler-patterns}

Message handler patterns cover common write operations, such as Signal and Update handlers.
They don't apply to pure read operations, like Queries or Update Validators.

> This section describes key features.

Author: Adopted

:::tip

For additional information, see [Inject work into the main Workflow](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#injecting-work-into-main-workflow) and [Ensuring your messages are processed exactly once](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exactly-once-message-processing).

> 

Author: Added link.

```
For additional information, see [Inject work into the main Workflow](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#injecting-work-into-main-workflow), [Ensuring your messages are processed exactly once](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exactly-once-message-processing), and [this sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/blob/message-passing/message_passing/safe_message_handlers/README.md) demonstrating safe `async` message handling.
```

Using `async def` allows you to use `await` with Activities, Child Workflows, [`asyncio.sleep`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.sleep) Timers, [`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition) conditions, etc.
This expands a handler's possibilities for what can be done by a handler but it also means that handler executions and your main Workflow method are all running concurrently, with switching occurring between them at `await` calls.
It's essential to understand the things that could go wrong in order to use `async def` handlers safely.
See [Workflow message passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing) for guidance on safe usage of async Signal and Update handlers, the [Safe message handlers](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/main/updates_and_signals/safe_message_handlers) sample, and the [Controlling handler concurrency](#control-handler-concurrency) and [Waiting for message handlers to finish](#wait-for-message-handlers) sections below.

The following code executes an Activity that makes a network call to a remote service.

> It demonstrates modifies the Update handler from earlier on this page for `async def`:

Author: adopted

    )
```

### Send an Update {#send-update-from-client}

An Update is a synchronous, blocking call that can change Workflow state, control its flow, and return a result.

A client sending an Update must wait until the Server delivers the Update to a Worker.
Workers must be available and responsive.
If you need a response as soon as the Server receives the request, use a Signal instead.
Also note that you can't send Updates to other Workflow Executions or perform an Update equivalent of Signal-With-Start.

- `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAccepted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update passed validation.
- `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompleted` is added to the Event History when the Worker confirms that the Update has finished.

To send an Update to a Workflow Execution, you can:

> - Call [`execute_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#execute_update) and wait for a Worker to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Call [`execute_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#execute_update) and wait for the Update to complete.
```

Author: Adopted

  This code fetches an Update result:

  ```python
  previous_language = await workflow_handle.execute_update(
      GreetingWorkflow.set_language, Language.Chinese
  )
  ```

> - Send [`start_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#start_update) to receive an [`UpdateHandle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowUpdateHandle.html) as soon as the update is accepted or rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send [`start_update`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowHandle.html#start_update) to receive an [`UpdateHandle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowUpdateHandle.html) as soon as the Update is accepted or rejected.
```

Author: Document audited now for Update, Activity, Signal, Query, Workflow, Worker -- all outside code. Your comments are untouched.

  - Use this `UpdateHandle` later to fetch your results.

>   - `async def` update handlers normally perform long-running async activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `async def` Update handlers normally perform long-running async activities.
```

>   - `start_update` wait until the Worker has accepted or rejected the Update, not until all activities are complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `start_update` only waits until the Worker has accepted or rejected the Update, not until all asynchronous operations are complete.
```

:::

## Message handler patterns {#message-handler-patterns}

This section covers common write operations, such as Signal and Update handlers.
It doesn't apply to pure read operations, like Queries or Update Validators.

:::tip

For additional information, see [Inject work into the main Workflow](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#injecting-work-into-main-workflow), [Ensuring your messages are processed exactly once](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exactly-once-message-processing), and [this sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/blob/message-passing/message_passing/safe_message_handlers/README.md) demonstrating safe `async` message handling.

:::

### Add async handlers to use `await` {#async-handlers}

Signal and Update handlers can be `async def` as well as `def`.
Using `async def` allows you to use `await` with Activities, Child Workflows, [`asyncio.sleep`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.sleep) Timers, [`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition) conditions, etc.

> This expands a handler's possibilities for what can be done by a handler but it also means that handler executions and your main Workflow method are all running concurrently, with switching occurring between them at `await` calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This expands the possibilities for what can be done by a handler but it also means that handler executions and your main Workflow method are all running concurrently, with switching occurring between them at `await` calls.
```

Author: Adopted

        return previous_language
```

> After updating the code for asynchronous use, your Update handler can schedule an Activity and await the result.

Author: Adopted

> Although an `async def` Signal handler can initiate similar Network tasks, using an Update handler allows the client to receive a result or error once the Activity completes.

Author: Nope. fixed.

This lets your client track the progress of asynchronous work performed by the Update's Activities, Child Workflows, etc.

#### Wait conditions

> Sometimes, `async def` Signal or Update handlers need preconditions to run safely.

Author: ```
Sometimes, `async def` Signal or Update handlers need to meet certain conditions before they can safely continue.
You can use wait conditions ([`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition)) to set a function that prevents the handler from proceeding until the condition returns `True`.
This is an important feature that helps you control your handler logic.
```

> Sometimes, `async def` Signal or Update handlers need preconditions to run safely.

Reviewer: > before they can safely continue.

Let's please drop "safely". It's simply about correctness: the algorithm that the user is trying to implement is not correct unless they prevent it from continuing.

Wait conditions ([`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition)) let you set a function that must return `True` before your handler continues.
This is an important feature that helps you control your handler logic.

> Your handler progresses only when specific conditions are met.

Author: I deleted this as part of the update, see previous resolved issue.

> The condition you're waiting for can be changed by any other Workflow code: the main Workflow method, another handler, a child coroutine spawned by the main Workflow method, and so forth.

Author: Updated to: 

```
The condition state you're waiting for can be updated by and reflect any part of the Workflow code.
This includes the main Workflow method, other handlers, or child coroutines spawned by the main Workflow method, and so forth.
```

Your handlers might start work before your main Workflow method begins.

> Consider a `ready_for_update_to_execute` method that must complete before running your Update.

Author: Changed `become true` to `return `True`` and adopted.

        return previous_language
```

After updating the code to use an `async def`, your Update handler can schedule an Activity and await the result.
Although an `async def` Signal handler can initiate similar network tasks, using an Update handler allows the client to receive a result or error once the Activity completes.
This lets your client track the progress of asynchronous work performed by the Update's Activities, Child Workflows, etc.

### Add wait conditions to block

Sometimes, `async def` Signal or Update handlers need to meet certain conditions before they should continue.

> You can use wait conditions ([`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition)) to set a function that prevents the code from proceeding until the condition returns `True`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a wait condition ([`workflow.wait_condition`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.workflow.html#wait_condition)) to set a function that prevents the code from proceeding until the condition returns `True`.
```

Author: Adopted

This is an important feature that helps you control your handler logic.

Here are two important use cases for `workflow.wait_condition`:

> * Waiting in a handler until it appropriate to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Waiting in a handler until it is appropriate to continue.
```

> * Waiting in the main Workflow until all active handlers have finished.

Reviewer: 👍

The condition state you're waiting for can be updated by and reflect any part of the Workflow code.
This includes the main Workflow method, other handlers, or child coroutines spawned by the main Workflow method, and so forth.

> ### Add handler conditions
> 
> When using handlers, it's common to add early Workflow wait conditions to ensure the handler is ready to start.
> You can also use wait conditions anywhere else in the handler to wait for a specific status to become `True`.
> This flexibility helps you manage wait conditions throughout the handler's execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use wait conditions in handlers

It's common to use a Workflow wait condition to wait until the handler should start.
You can also use wait conditions anywhere else in the handler to wait for a specific condition to become `True`.
This allows you to write handlers that pause at multiple points, each time waiting for a required condition to become `True`.
```

        )
```

> Wait conditions can be used anywhere and at any time in your handlers, not just at the start.

Author: removing `and at any time`.

This flexibility lets you manage wait conditions throughout the handler's execution.

Remember: Handlers can execute before the main Workflow method starts.

#### Use `asyncio.Lock` to prevent concurrent handler execution {#control-handler-concurrency}

Concurrent processes can interact in unpredictable ways.

> At times, [concurrent message-passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#message-handler-concurrency) code won't work properly when multiple handler instances are in progress at the same time.

Author: Rewording

> At times, [concurrent message-passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#message-handler-concurrency) code won't work properly when multiple handler instances are in progress at the same time.

Author: Concurrent processes can interact in unpredictable ways.
Incorrectly written [concurrent message-passing](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#message-handler-concurrency) code may not work correctly when multiple handler instances run simultaneously.
Here's an example of a pathological case:

        )
```

Remember: Handlers can execute before the main Workflow method starts.

### Ensure your handlers finish before the Workflow completes {#wait-for-message-handlers}

> Workflow wait conditions let your handlers complete before a Workflow finishes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow wait conditions can be used to ensure your handlers complete before the Workflow finishes.
```

However, I'm not sure it's needed as the others sentences do a good job.

Author: Summary: The first sentence is clearer and more readable due to its brevity and directness. The second sentence, while still clear, introduces additional complexity that may slightly impact readability.

Stet

Reviewer: "let" seems wrong to me; I believe it is synonymous with "allow" and thus carries with it the possibility that the allowed action will not be taken.

 But here using the wait condition guarantees that the handler _will_ complete before the workflow completes; there is no possibility that it will opt not to do that.

Author: I'll give you "can ensure"

Reviewer: Sounds good!

        await asyncio.sleep(1)  # or await anything else
        self.y = data.y
```

Coordinating access using `asyncio.Lock` transforms this code into a safe and maintainable approach.

> Locking makes sure that only one coroutine can execute a specific section of code at any given time:

Author: Locking makes sure that only one handler instance can execute a specific section of code at any given time:

            self.y = data.y
```

> #### Finish handlers before the Workflow completes {#wait-for-message-handlers}

Author: #### Ensure your handlers finish before the Workflow completes {#wait-for-message-handlers}

> #### Finish handlers before the Workflow completes {#wait-for-message-handlers}

Author: Also, no disrespect to Finland.

When sending a Signal, Update, or Query to a Workflow, your Client might encounter the following errors:

- **The client can't contact the server**:
  You'll receive a [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) on which the `status` attribute is [`RPCStatusCode`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCStatusCode.html) `UNAVAILABLE` (after some retries; see the `retry_config` argument to [`Client.connect`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.Client.html#connect)).

- **The workflow does not exist**:
  You'll receive an [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception on which the `status` attribute is [`RPCStatusCode`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCStatusCode.html) `NOT_FOUND`.

See [Exceptions in message handlers](/encyclopedia/workflow-message-passing#exceptions) for a non–Python-specific discussion of this topic.

### Problems when sending a Signal {#signal-problems}

When using Signal, the only exception that will result from your requests is `RPCError`.

For Queries and Updates, the client waits for a response from the Worker.

> If an issue occurs during the handler Execution by the Worker, the client may receive an exception.

Reviewer: This phrasing slightly loses the sense that the following errors are in addition to the `RPCError`s above that all handlers may experience in the initial (pre-worker) part of the request lifecycle.

Author: Working on this on-thread

### Problems when sending a Query {#query-problems}

- **There is no Workflow Worker polling the Task Queue**:
    You'll receive a [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception on which the `status` attribute is [`RPCStatusCode`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCStatusCode.html) `FAILED_PRECONDITION`.

- **Query failed**:
  You'll receive a [`temporalio.client.WorkflowQueryFailedError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowQueryFailedError.html) exception if something goes wrong during a Query.
  Any exception in a Query handler will trigger this error.
  This differs from Signal and Update requests, where exceptions can lead to Workflow Task Failure instead.

- **The handler caused the Workflow Task to fail.**
    This would happen, for example, if the Query handler blocks the thread for too long without yielding.

## Dynamic handlers {#dynamic-handler}

Dynamic Workflows, Activities, Signals, Updates, and Queries are a kind of unnamed handler.

> They're looked up by name and dynamically invoked at runtime.

Reviewer: You give a good explanation of what dynamic handlers are below. I think that explanation needs to be hoisted up here.

IMO it requires considerable sophistication to know how "dynamically invoked at runtime" differs from simply "invoked at runtime", and all handlers by definition are invoked at runtime, so I vote we drop that phrase entirely (here and below).

Author: hoisted

    These might include:

      - A failed Child Workflow
      - A failed Activity (if the Activity retries have been set to a finite number)
      - The Workflow author raising `ApplicationFailure`
      - Any error listed in [workflow_failure_exception_types](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.worker.Worker.html) (empty by default)

- **The handler caused the Workflow Task to fail**:
  A [Workflow Task Failure](/references/failures#errors-in-workflows) causes the server to retry Workflow Tasks indefinitely. What happens to your Update request depends on its stage:
    - If the request hasn't been accepted by the server, you receive a `FAILED_PRECONDITION` [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception.
    - If the request has been accepted, it is durable.
      Once the Workflow is healthy again after a code deploy, use an [`UpdateHandle`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowUpdateHandle.html) to fetch the Update result.

- **The Workflow finished while the Update handler execution was in progress**:

>     You'll receive a [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception with a "workflow execution already completed" message.

Reviewer: Hey @fairlydurable one more tiny change here -- it's a loose end I left and didn't get aorund to. Basically we weren't giving the RPC status code here (up to you whether we mention the error message)

```suggestion
You'll receive a [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception with a `status` attribute of [`RPCStatusCode`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCStatusCode.html) `NOT_FOUND`.
```

Author: Adopted.

### Problems when sending a Query {#query-problems}

When working with Queries, you may encounter these errors:

- **There is no Workflow Worker polling the Task Queue**:
    You'll receive a [`temporalio.service.RPCError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCError.html) exception on which the `status` attribute is [`RPCStatusCode`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.service.RPCStatusCode.html) `FAILED_PRECONDITION`.

- **Query failed**:
  You'll receive a [`temporalio.client.WorkflowQueryFailedError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.client.WorkflowQueryFailedError.html) exception if something goes wrong during a Query.
  Any exception in a Query handler will trigger this error.
  This differs from Signal and Update requests, where exceptions can lead to Workflow Task Failure instead.

- **The handler caused the Workflow Task to fail.**
    This would happen, for example, if the Query handler blocks the thread for too long without yielding.

## Dynamic components {#dynamic-handler}

A dynamic Workflow, Activitity, Signal, Update, or Query is a kind of unnamed item.
Normally, these items are registered by name with the Worker and invoked at runtime.

> When an unregistered or unrecognized Workflow, Activity, or message handler arrives with a recognized method signature, the Worker can use a pre-registered dynamic stand-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an unregistered or unrecognized Workflow, Activity, or message request arrives with a recognized method signature, the Worker can use a pre-registered dynamic stand-in.
```

Reviewer: "handler" was wrong. Suggesting "request" there since we don't normally speak of Workflows or Activities "arriving".

Author: Adopted

> This helps when a static named version does not exist or when the name for an existing item is unknown.

Reviewer: It's not that it "helps". It's that the Workflow author might have used such a dynamic component deliberately to implement a specific algorithm.

```suggestion
```

Author: Rephrasing

Author: Actually just removed line. Didn't affect the para

        ...
```

This sample creates a `dynamic_signal` Signal.
When an unregistered or unrecognized Signal arrives with a `(self, str, Sequence[RawValue])` signature, dynamic assignment will use this handler to manage the Signal.
It is responsible for transforming the sequence contents into usable data in a form that the method's logic can process and act on.

> 

Reviewer: I think this is duplicating the better explanation elsewhere. The main point is the `name: str` argument. The fact that args come in in a loosely-typed `Sequence` form is a technical detail that we should try not to burden users with when they're getting their heads around the basic idea of dynamic dispatch, and trying to understant what they should be using dynamic handlers for (probably they shouldn't, we should make sure not to encourage this too much). Also the workflow and activities content here is in the wrong file since this is message-passing. None of which is your fault or mine; just noting down the things we need to fix here.

Author: I duplicate a lot in these sections, assuming the reader will look for only the section they want/need.

I'll de-emphasize the Sequence for all the parallel coverage.

### Set a Dynamic Workflow {#set-a-dynamic-workflow}

> 

Reviewer: This section needs more work and isn't ready to go out yet. One option would be to leave the existing content unchanged and deal with it in subsequent work, after Update launch. It is in the wrong place though (dynamic workflows and activities are not related to message-passing).

> A dynamic Workflow refers to a special Workflow Definition that's invoked at runtime.

Reviewer: (All handlers are invoked at run-time by definition.)

It's used when an unknown Workflow Execution request arrives.

> For example, you might create a new Workflow Execution called "MyUnknownWorkflow" and assign it to a Task Queue.
> After arriving at a Worker that polls that Task Queue, the Worker may find there's no registered Workflow Definitions of that name or type.

Reviewer: Perhaps alomg the lines of
```suggestion
For example, you might send a request to start a Workflow named "MyUnknownWorkflow".
When receiving a Workflow Task, the Worker may find that there's no registered Workflow Definitions of that type.
...
```

Author: Updated extensively.
